---
layout: post
title: NodeUpload Production Ready Release
---
For quite a while now, I have been working on a file sharing Node.JS app called [NodeUpload](https://ndt3.ml/r/nodeupload). At version 4 of NodeUpload, I decided that it seemed stable enough after fixing a bug to be marked as production ready. Please note that even though I would consider it production ready, there may still be some issues that you can [submit as an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/NdT3Development/NodeUpload/issues). Now that it is in version 5, I thought that it would be a good time to write a blog post.

You probably have some questions about NodeUpload...

> What is this?

  NodeUpload is a Node.js server application that lets you run your own private file upload service. It uses randomly generated tokens for upload authentication and includes some admin features that require an admin token (which are generated when running  `createUser.js` and answering `true` to the `Admin` question).

  > How are uploads done?

  When a user uploads a file, it will be stored in a directory in your operating system's tmp directory. Then there will be a connection to the database to check that the token is valid. If it is valid, the file gets moved to the `files` directory in the app's directory.

  > How are tokens generated?

  Tokens generated are **not** based on any information given when running `createUser.js`. The information there is only used to be stored in the database. The token is generated by the [`uuid` module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/uuid) (`uuid.v4`) to generate a comletely random token.

  > What is the difference between a token and an admin token?

  A token (or upload token) is used for uploading files where an admin token is used for things like deleting files. An admin token cannot be used to upload and an upload token cannot be used for admin actions.

  > Why can a user with an admin token still do admin actions after their token has been disabled.

  Currently there is not a check for enabled accounts when doing admin actions. Uploads for disabled accounts will still be blocked however admin actions won't.

  > Does it check for information already existing in the database when running `createUser.js`?

  Yes, this feature has been added.

  > Is there any way to change the port that it runs on?

  To change the port that NodeUpload runs on, edit the config file (`config.json`).

  > Is there any way to change the length of the generated file names of uploads?

  To change the length of the auto generated file names of uploads, edit the config file (`config.json`).

  > Is there any way to change the responses (console output, web responses, etc)?

  Yes, there is. Edit the `strings.json` file. The placeholders (`{{placeholder}}`) in these cannot be used in all strings. The code will have to be changed if you want to add these into strings that do not have support for it. More info coming soon.

  > Can I contribute to the development of NodeUpload?

  Yes, anyone can contribute to the development of NodeUpload. You can open a pull request to add in code or contact me using the contact form on [my website](https://www.ndt3.ml).

  > I found a bug, how do I report it?

  To report a bug, open an issue. Remember to include information like `It happened after I...` as this will help to find the issue.

  > Can I request a feature?

  Yes, I am open to feedback and feature requests. Just open an issue or contact me using the contact form on [my website](https://www.ndt3.ml).

  > Why does it only say ready for production here now even though NodeUpload is in version 4.0.0?

  Decided not to use v0.x.x as the development version numbers as NodeUpload was probably production ready with a few changes to the code. Other reason: I don't actually know why I did it like this... ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯

For more info, please [go to the NodeUpload GitHub repository](https://ndt3.ml/r/nodeupload)
